Now let's talk about an abstract class abstract classes a special type of class that cannot be instantiated
abstract classes designed to be inherited by other abstract classes or concrete classes that either
inherit or overwrite its members.
You can have all the components in your abstract class that you can have in your concrete class properties
and methods however can be abstract or virtual.
We'll talk about abstract or virtual a little later.
I want to go ahead and create another concrete class called retail salesperson.
This concrete class is going to have everything that the car salesman class has done anything different
is going to be the message in the sell method which is going to say I would recommend you to buy this
pen.
So we'll go ahead and create another class.
Right click new file we'll call this retail sales person.
That's a yes name.
Here we go.
Public
class retail salesperson and then I will copy over the contents and we need to import console so we
can use as methods change the name of the constructor because the constructor name has to match the
name of the class.
And then I will change this to Penn.
OK.
So we go now as you can see we have two classes that have the same exact functionality for the most
part except one small part which is different.
I will go out and instantiate the retail salesperson as you can see will we have car salesmen instantiate
it.
So I will change the second instantiation and make it to be retail salesperson and keep the first name
and last name as it was before.
So we'll say retail salesperson
there it is let's run it as you can see it's already breakpoint.
So we'll go ahead and press play and we will go ahead and go through this line by line and continue.
So as you can see it's Steve Rogers.
Hi my name is Steve Rogers.
I would recommend you to buy this car.
Eric Erickson Hi my name is Eric Erickson.
I would recommend you to buy this pen.
So we now see that the car salesman has its way of selling and the retail salesperson has its own way
of selling which makes sense because they're two completely separate methods defined differently.
But as you have noticed once again there's a crap ton of code duplication.
We have rewritten the same code over and over again.
This is where the abstract class comes to help.
Let me create an abstract class called salesman who will use the reserved keyword abstract in order
to create an abstract class.
Let's go to back to explore right click new file salesman dots.
Yes.
OK.
And then I will say public abstract class salesman.
Here we go.
Now I will take all of the contents from the car salesman and I will put it inside of the salesman abstract
class.
The only thing I will change is the sell method.
I'll make it abstract and take out the contents.
I will also go out and remove everything from the retail salesperson.
Then I will perform inheritance.
So I will go ahead grab everything from here
and I will bring it to salesman.
Put it back.
I will actually take everything out from here and there you go salesman has everything.
I will just change that to salesman import castle
and then I will actually make this but I said abstract which I will show you what it means in just a
few minutes.
So now let's go to car salesman and I will inherit from the salesman abstract class the way you do it
is through a colon.
You put the call after the class that needs to perform inheritance which is this class car salesman.
And after that you put the class that you wanted to inherit from.
In this case salesman.
So I was a salesman.
I will go in and do the same thing for retail salesperson so.
Same thing here.
Now notice and what are the concrete classes we need to add a few things we need to have a constructor
and we need to define individually how sell method is going to work.
So I will can just say General constructor and that'll do that and then we need to implement abstract
class so same thing for this guy.
And once again implement the abstract class.
So the reason why we need to have a constructor in the concrete class is because we need to build the
abstract class first before we can build anything else inheriting from it.
Also a quick conversion the class inheriting from another class is called either a subclass or child
class.
And the class being inherited from is called a base class or planned class.
In our case the salesman has a base class or parent class and the concrete classes are it's children
or subclasses.
Now let's take a look at it here we have this base reserve keyword.
Before we just knew that the constructor was this part.
But now we have colon and then we have this base reserve keyword.
Now the base reserve keyword is just here to say that you're using the base classes constructor.
So instead of taking the first name in the last name and setting them to the fields in the concrete
class which doesn't have any we take those and pass them down to the base constructor so that the abstract
class can set those fields.
So this way any other class using the salesman class which is the base class can have access to those
fields as well without having to repeat the same code inside of their own class.
Same thing goes for methods properties and constructors.
So as you can see we take the first name in the last name and we just pass them down to the base constructor
by using base rows of keyword and base just refers to salesman's constructor which is right here.
So we're setting it all here and that's what the base reserved keyword does.
One quick thing you might be wondering about is what happens when you have more parameters for the child
class that might not be going into a base class.
And the answer is we just don't pass it into the base class.
We set those in the child class.
An example would be H So if we have age or anything else in this case I just mentioned age.
So if we say in age and this doesn't really go anywhere but we needed for our child class then we would
just have a field that's a private field here and I would say private int age.
And then we would just say this age equals age.
We just set it inside of the concrete class or the child class and the parent doesn't know anything
about it.
So that's just an example we don't really need this for our example.
And it will take it out.
Then we can move on.
So as you can see abstract classes purpose is to unify relate to functionality.
In this case we have two types of salesmen who have similar functionality different other functionalities
the similar part is included inside of the abstract class and the different part is going to be overridden
by each concrete class.
So let's talk about overwriting as you can see we're overwriting the cell method which doesn't have
much in it.
The reason is because it is abstract on the abstract class.
So that forces any check class to define it on their own.
It could have also been concrete which could have just been inherited and would not have needed to be
overridden.
So as you can see once again salesman has cell as abstract.
So it just says I don't know how it's going to be defined and the car salesman takes it.
And this is just a method stop.
That's what it puts in it.
But it's just basically an empty mouth.
That's like elegant it's an empty method.
And for now it's just says throw an exception.
So say that this is this method has not been implemented.
That's all the straw you not implemented exception means.
So I can just you know take stuff out and keep it empty.
But for now each of the classes copy classes or child classes is going to define it on their own.
And it's going to say hey this is how my cell method is going to work so I'm going to start from the
retail salesperson I'm going to say console right line and we're going to say string format.
You only know the deal.
I already had the seventh copy it.
So spacing it here.
Hi my name is and then zero the place holder.
I would recommend you to buy this pen and then I say this the full name.
And that's that.
So that takes care of the cell method on retail salesperson.
And then we go to the car salesman and we do the same thing which is changed this to a car OK.
So that's that.
Now let's run this go to the program as you can see not much has different.
I mean we have everything else the same.
We didn't change any of the instantiation.
Everything stayed the same.
But in the back end you know we have the salesman.
Everything is different we have a sale of an abstract class.
That's the base class for these two child classes and they have their constructors and their way of
defining their own cell method.
So everything else is different.
It's been refactor it's been changed but the front and everything else is the same.
So now we're going to run it.
So start debugging and it's already breakpoint.
So I'm going to go line by line and that and then finish the execution so you can see.
Same thing.
Steve Rogers I mean Amnesty Rogers I was recommended to buy this car.
Erick Erickson My name is Erick Erickson.
I would recommend you to buy this pencil same exact thing but with less code and much more elegant much
more elegant so you have the salesman abstract class that defines the base functionality and then it
says this is not base functionality.
This is just something you have to have.
But I don't know how it's going to be defined and then we just defined those on the child classes so
we the final on this guy.
And that would define it on this guy just differently.
Right.
And this was his car.
This was his pen.
Now this is a pretty simple example.
You can see how complex this can get because each one might have a very very different definition than
this.
So once again abstract classes help us to keep our code scalable readable and maintainable so we don't
have to duplicate our code everywhere.
Now let's quickly talk about the virtual and abstract keywords as you saw the abstract reserve keyword
just means that it has no definition of its own.
And it needs to be defined on the inheriting class.
Virtual means that it has a definition.
However one can overwrite it if one decides to.
So we could go ahead and give the cell a concrete definition and make it a generic cell page and let
each concrete method or let each child method in this case decide whether they want to use the generic
picture or want to have their own.
So we'll go ahead and I will actually copy this and go to salesmen and make this virtual.
So I use virtual reserved keyword and then I actually give it a definition.
It's not abstract anymore but I say Hi my name is so-and-so.
I would recommend you to buy this item.
OK.
This is a much more generic way of pitching but it you know it's on it and we can either use it or write
it.
And if you go to retail sales personal car salesperson see this part doesn't break because we are able
to overwrite it but if we don't want to overwrite it for example for retail sales poor person I will
make retail salesperson use the generic pitch.
So we'll actually take this out.
And when you don't overwrite it by default you get what the base class has.
So that on our abstract class which acts as a base class we have this sell method the cellmate virtual
method which has its own definition.
Let's go out and run we'll go ahead and run this one more time.
So remember Eric the sales dude is going to have the generic pitch.
So it's not going to say bye.
I recommended to buy this pen anymore.
So if we go here I will actually step in and you can see now it's not in the retail salesperson anymore.
Right.
Because it doesn't have a method but instead it is hitting the virtual method.
So now it says Hi my name is Erick Erickson.
I would recommend you to buy this item.
Right.
So now you see that the car salesman hits its own overwritten method and the retail salesperson just
grabs the sell method with the generic method but it has an opportunity to overwrite it.
So if actually bring this back I bring this back.
You'll see if I run it again you see that first of all this goes into it's over a method which is the
car salesman.
So we you know that.
And then this one before it went to the salesman and hit the virtual method.
But now you can see it's hitting its own overridden method.
So now it's actually going to say hi my name is Erick Erickson I would recommend you to buy this pen.
OK.
So here we go we have talked about abstract classes and inheritance.
And next we're going to talk about interfaces and the difference between abstract classes and interfaces.